# CS 1501 Assignment2 Writeup Paper
__*Wentao Wu/wew92@pitt.edu*__

__*Total Words：696*__

__*Note：Compared to A1, this assignment adds comments to the code. The comments for the method logic are written in a new line before the code, while the comments for the specific statement are written after the same line of code.*__

# Solution Analysis #

- Part 0
  - initialization：I add necessary imports, create&initialize instance variable `root`, and call `add` method.
  
  - `Suggestion`: One part completes the creation and initialization of variables and methods; the other part implements the Comparable interface.

  - Most of the variables are based on the structure of DLB itself and are defined in `DLBNode`. It is worth mentioning that I added `pos`, which means the height of DLB, and it is important.
  
- Part 1
  - public `add`: It is specifically implemented by the private `add` method, here is just a call on it.
  
  - private `add`: There are three main situations. The first one is that when current node is null, I create a new node and go to child for adding characters. The second one is that when there exists a node and its characters correspond to word's position so I go to its child node for next character. The third one is that in other circumstances like not matching now, I need to search the same level. In addition, when recursing to child nood, it is necessary to use `isWord` to check whether it has constituted a valid word.
  
  - `notifyWordSelected`: It is specifically implemented by the private `updateScore` method, here is just a call on it.
  
  - `updateScore`: Same workflow as `add`, and the first one is that when current node is null, directly return. The second one is that when there exists a node and its characters correspond to word's position, recursive call on child node, while the third one is that  recursive call on sibling node. Same, when checking it is a valid word, update score.
  
  - `getScore`: It is specifically implemented by the private `helpGetScore` method, here is just a call on it.  
  
  - `helpGetScore`: Similarly, based on three conditions, handle null node, searching child and searching sibling separately.

- Part 2
  - `retrieveWords`: Return when a null condition occurs. Create an array list and call `collect` method to implement retrive. Then sort this array list in a descending order.
  
  - `collect`: There are three cases to deal with. The first one is that when position equals to the length of word, check whether matching now and then check whether it is a valid word. It there exists a valid word, add it to `sugList`. Besides, if there exists child node, go for it. Otherwise, when not matching, go for another subcondition - sibling! The second one is that when position is larger than length, similarily check valid word&add, go for child and sibling. The third one is that when position is less than the length, there must be no valid word at this time, so when matching go for child and go for sibling when not matching. What needs to be said is that a new variable `curWord` is created here, based on the structure of DLB, only need to add content when child, but not when sibling.

- Problems:
  - This assignment is much easier than A1 beacuse of start code given by prof and midterm review of DLB. Once mastering the structure of DLB, it is clear to complete this assignment step by step, so the problems I met are just small details. Since I did not consider putting smaller word earlier when scores are equal at the beginning, the output of the second part is wrong.
  - What I think most important for A2 is understanding DLB structure. We need to figure out when we need to deal with what situation.

# Runtime Asymptotic Analysis #

- Constant

  - `Number of words in dictionary`: N

  - `Number of characters in a word or prefix`: M

  - `Size of alphabet`: S

  - `Number of matching word suggestions`: K

- Runtime Analysis

  - `Insertion`: θ(MS)

  - `Score incrementing`: θ(MS)

  - `Score retrieval`: θ(MS)

  - `Suggestions retrieval`: θ(KMS)
