# CS 1501 Assignment1 Writeup Paper

__*Wentao Wu/wew92@pitt.edu*__

__*Total Words：707*__

# Solution Analysis #

- In order to complete this assignment, I set the following data structures in my main program `Crossword.java`.

  - `main()`: It is mainly responsible for some settings of initialization, two inputs of text document, and call of `solve()`. 
  
  - `solve()`: It fills the board with valid words in the form of square.
  
  - `isValid()`: It is used to check whether the appending character before the square is a valid word.
  
  - `print()`: It prints the solved words in the board. 
  
  - `point()`: It calculates the sum scores of letters in the board.

- Algorithm Process

  - `main()`: I first read words from `dict8.txt` and store them in MyDictionary object, and scan information from test files to set the board. Then I create two StringBuilder arrays rowStr and colStr to store words. Finally I called `solve()`  to fill in the board.
  
  - `solve()`: It deals with three situations. The first one is dealing with constant characters. After cheking its validity through `isValid()`, I append it into rowStr and colStr. When the constant character is at the end of board, it means it is solved and call `print()`. When it is not at the end of a col, increase the col. When it is not at the end of a row, increase the row. If all of three are tried, it will backtrack. The second one is dealing with '+'. It is similar with the first one. The third one is dealing with '-', but I do not need to check its validity.
  
  - `isValid()`: Fisrt I set two variables to check whether rowStr and colStr contain '-' and they are used to be as the starting points of searching prefixs. Then I set a boolean variable valid. It checks whether a word is valid word or prefix from the first letter to the last letter. If it is not valid, backtrack will happen in `solve()`.
  
  - `print()`: It uses a loop to iterate words in rowStr and print it. Then it prints the corresponding points returned by `point()`. Finally it exits successfully.
  
  - `point()`: I input letterpoints and set score variable to count. This method contains two loops. The outer one interates each word in rowStr and the inner one iterates each character in the word. Finally the socre will increase cumulatively.

- Problems

  - When I entered test files, I didn't notice the title of file at first. This caused my input to always have problems. I spent a day on this error and finally made a string variable to start reading from the second line.
  
  - For corresponding characters to scores, the function that I used is creating a list which is a copy of `letterpoints.txt`. This function is stupid but easy and usful.  If I had more time, I might create a char [] [] and scan `letterpoints.txt`, or use HashMap.

  - A considerable part of test files need to be tested for a long time, which is more than two hours. It is too long, and DLB may be needed to assist in improvement.

# Runtime Analysis #

The following data is calculated by the timer I set in `Crossword.java`. Due to the format requirements of assignment 1, this function is not included in the final submitted `Crossword.java`.

| Test files    | Runtime   |
|---------------|-----------|
| test3a     | 0~1s      |
| test3b     | 2s      |
| test4a     | 7s      |
| test4b     | 6s      |
| test4c     | 0~1s      |
| test4d     | 0~1s      |
| test4e     | >2hours     |
| test4f     | 10s      |
| test5a     | 5s      |
| test6a     | >2hours |
| test6b     | 24min 38s  |
| test6c     | >3hours |
| test7a     |  >3hours|
| test8a     |>2hours    |
| test8b     | >3hours    |
| test8c     | 13min 33s |

# Asymptotic Analysis #

__*Run-time of `Crossword.java` is exponential.*__
- Number of words in dictionary file: M
    
- Number of characters in a word: N
   
- Number of possible letters in a crossword location: P
   
- Number of crossword locations in the puzzle: Q

__According to the constants defined above, the Run-time of worst-case is O（(MN)*P^Q）.__
   
