# CS 1501 Assignment3 Writeup Paper
__*Wentao Wu/wew92@pitt.edu*__

__*Total Words：1062*__


# Compression Ratio Table #

- In this assignment, I have five different compression pattern.
  - `LZW` : It is the unmodified basic LZW implementation.
  - `LZWmod -r` : It compresses files with resetting dictionary when it is full.
  - `LZWmod -n` : It compresses files without resetting dictionary when it is full.
  - `LZWextra` : It compresses files with deciding whether to reset dictionary or not when it's full.
  - `compress` : It is an executable file for compression in Linux machine.

| Test files    |Original Size|LZW|LZW Ratio|LZW Mod R|Mod R Ratio|LZW Mod N|Mod N Ratio|LZW Extra|Extra Ratio|Unix Compression|Unix Ratio|
|---------------|-------------|---|---------|---------|-----------|---------|-----------|---------|-----------|----------------|----------|
|all.tar        |2960         |1804|1.64    |1179     |2.51|	1751|	1.69|	1945|	1.52|	1152|	2.57|
|assig2.doc     |85           |73|1.16      |	40|	2.13|	40|	2.13|	40|	2.13|	40|2.13|
| bmps.tar      |     1080    |904|1.19     |76	|14.21|80|	13.5|	78	|13.85|	80|	13.5|
| code.txt      |   71        |31|2.29      |24|	2.96|	24|	2.96|	24|	2.96|	24|	2.96|
| code2.txt     |  57         |24|2.38      |21|	2.71|	21|	2.71|	21|	2.71|	21|	2.71|
| edit.exe      |  231        |245|0.94     |151|	1.53|	153|	1.51|	160|	1.44|	148|	1.56|
| frosty.jpg    |    124      |174|0.71     |174|	0.71|	160|	0.78|	172|	0.72|	124|	1|
|gone_fishing.bmp.Z|  17      |13|1.31       |13|1.31	|13|1.31	|13|1.31|	/|	/|
| large.txt     | 1193        |591|2.02     |539|	2.21|	491|	2.43|	544|	2.19|	511|	2.33|
| Lego-big.gif  |  92         |126|0.73     |126	|0.73	|120	|0.77	|126	|0.73	|92	|1|
| medium.txt    | 25          |13|1.92      |13|1.92      |13|1.92      |13|1.92      |13|1.92      |
| texts.tar     | 1350        |989|1.37     |597|	2.26|	584|	2.31|	610|	2.21|	576|	2.34|
|wacky.bmp      |   901       |5|180.2      |4|	225.25|4|	225.25|4|	225.25|4|	225.25|
| winnt256.bmp  |    154      |156|0.99     |61|	2.52|	62|	2.48|	71|	2.17|	62|	2.48|

All units in this table are KB.

# Test File & Ratio Analysis #

- For `all.tar` , `compression.exe` and `LZWmod -r` have greater ratio while others have positive lower ratio. `all.tar` is the largest file and I think its performance is related to reset. 
- For `assig2.doc` , `LZW` has a lower ratio, while the other four programs have the same high ratio. Its workflow is similar to text files.
- For `bmps.tar` , `LZW` has a lower ratio, while the other four programs have high ratio. All the tar files have relatively good compression performance and `bmps.tar` is the best one because original bmp files have high compression ratio.
- For `code.txt` , all programs have similar positive ratios. All text files have a ratio over 2 except `medium.txt`. LZW is useful for text files because there is more duplicate data in text files, and LZW can replace a large amount of longer data with shorter data. The more duplicate data in the file, the higher the compression ratio of the file.
- For `code2.txt` , all programs have similar positive ratios. All text files have a ratio over 2 except `medium.txt`. LZW is useful for text files because there is more duplicate data in text files, and LZW can replace a large amount of longer data with shorter data. The more duplicate data in the file, the higher the compression ratio of the file.
- For `edit.exe` , `LZW` has a lower ratio, while the other four programs have similar high ratio.I think this is because exe may also be a character based file
- For `frosty.jpg` , `LZW.java`, `LZWmod.java` and `LZWextra.java` all have extended operations on it, while `compress.exe` dose not compress it at all. Usually, the image format has been compressed. Compared with text files, images have more information and more random data, which means that is irregular, and each pixel must be compressed. According to the data structure of LZW, we need to create many new compressed files to replace in LZW, which leads to the fact that the actual compressed file is larger than the original version.
- For `gone_fishing.bmp.Z` , `LZW.java`, `LZWmod.java` and `LZWextra.java` have the same performance on it, while `compress.exe` can not compress it because it has already been a .Z file. Bmp files are uncompressed bitmapped images. It differs from other bmp files in that it cannot be compressed by 'compress. exe'.
- For `large.txt` , all programs have similar positive ratios. All text files have a ratio over 2 except `medium.txt`. LZW is useful for text files because there is more duplicate data in text files, and LZW can replace a large amount of longer data with shorter data. The more duplicate data in the file, the higher the compression ratio of the file.
- For `Lego-big.gif` , `LZW.java`, `LZWmod.java` and `LZWextra.java` all have extended operations on it, while `compress.exe` dose not compress it at all. Usually, the image format has been compressed. Compared with text files, images have more information and more random data, which means that is irregular, and each pixel must be compressed. According to the data structure of LZW, we need to create many new compressed files to replace in LZW, which leads to the fact that the actual compressed file is larger than the original version.
- For `medium.txt` , all programs have similar positive ratios. All text files have a ratio over 2 except `medium.txt`. The reason is that it is too small, at least 13KB.
- For `texts.tar` , `LZW` has a lower ratio, while the other three programs have similar better ratio. All the tar files have relatively good compression performance and `texts.tar` has a similar compression ratio with other independent text files.
- For `wacky.bmp` , all programs have a good performance on it. Bmp files are uncompressed bitmapped images. Why it can be the BEST CASE is that most of it are blank, which means that can be replaced by LZW easily.
- For `winnt256.bmp` , `LZW` expands it while the other four programs greatly compress it.Bmp files are uncompressed bitmapped images. This bmp is complex so it can not be compressed easily by `wacky.bmp`.


  At first, I didn't understand the performance of some of them, so I queried relevant information on the Internet to understand the reason.
  
  Generally, `compress.exe` has a better compression performance.


# BEST CASE & WORST CASE #

- BEST CASE: `wacky.bmp` - All programs have a compression ratio over one hundred of it. The specific reasons are analyzed in the previous part.
- WORST CASE: `frosty.jpg` - Programs `LZW.java`, `LZWmod.java` and `LZWextra.java` all have extended operations on it, while `compress.exe` dose not compress it at all. `Lego-big.gif` is similar to it. The specific reasons are analyzed in the previous part.
